

=='''Introduction'''==

'''Lover Beauty''' <ref>[http://www.lover-beauty.com lover-beauty] </ref> ('lʌvə 'bjuːtɪ ), commonly referred to as a beautiful lover, or simply a beauty, is now used to describe a women or girl who is very beautiful and pretty. Lover beauty is also a very famous fashion lingerie brand name in Germany, which wholesales '''Sexy Lingerie'''<ref name="trendy lingerie">[http://www.lover-beauty.com/sexy-lingerie/ trendy lingerie]</ref> , '''Bandage Dress'''<ref name="fashion dress">[http://www.lover-beauty.com/Fashion-dress/ fashion dress]</ref>, '''Steel Boned Corset''', '''Galaxy Legging''' and''' Sexy Costume shopping'''. Lover beauty stepped into business since 2000 and always keep quick growth, its product catalog and brands are always expanding by continued and tireless efforts. Until now the brand has carried over 5000 styles of sexy lingerie, costumes, dresses, swimwear and offer the customer a large selection of products to choose, where the customers can’t find anywhere else.


=='''History'''==
 
'''Lover beauty''' first involved in clothing sale in 2000, mainly focused on lingerie sale. At first, it was just a small online platform that sold lingerie and costumes. After several year’s developments, it had begun to take shape to be a formal online lingerie sale website. These years, with the development of E-commerce, Lover beauty also began its international sale and gradually developed into a large and famous lingerie wholesaler and manufacturer among customers in many countries. Today Lover beauty is a very famous wholesaler that owns many factories and have employees over 300, which make it possible to carry out large international sale.

=='''Brand and products'''== 

In Lover beauty, there is no minimum order quantity limit, you can mix order with different styles, different sizes, different colors and so on as you like. They have more than 100 professional staffs who are responsible for large, medium and small wholesale business, which guarantees to send the parcel out without delay and offer the customer a tracking number within 2 business days after they pay the order. 

Today, Lover Beauty sales among more than 130 countries and has over 5,000 leading retailers. With more than 600,000 items in stock and ready to ship, Lover beauty has an enormous selection of items with new products constantly added. Now Lover beauty has got more online than ever: The best and large selection online, shapewear, legging, casual dress, swimwear for women. And that’s just the beginning. If you have any new ideas or design to make it exclusively, OEM and logo are both welcomed.

From '''Sexy lingerie''' to '''Bandage dress''', '''Galaxy legging''' to '''Cheap costume''', '''Hot swimwear '''<ref name="summer swimwear">[http://www.lover-beauty.com/Swimwear/ summer swimwear]</ref> to '''Chic corset'''<ref name="chic corset">[http://www.lover-beauty.com/Sexy-Corsets/ chic corset]</ref>, Lover beauty wholesales a large selection of fashion clothes to all over the world.

=='''OEM service'''==

If you have any new ideas or design to make it exclusively, '''OEM''' and '''logo''' are both welcomed. For OEM service, they have their own factory with over 300 workers and this enables them to offer OEM service for you, ① '''Private Label line''' (sewed label and paper tag), ② '''Print Private Logo''',③''' Customize Package''',④ '''Customize Advertising Paper''', ⑤ '''Produce Customized Products Styles'''. They can produce customized products in the following ways:1.Make changes based on our current styles shown on www.lover-beauty.com. 2  Send them photos or send them description and sketch of what kinds of products you want.3 If you have other ways to describe your design, you can feel free to contact them. General speaking, production will take time around 3-4weeks, depending on the quantity of your order, and they will confirm all of the details before you pay. You can take it easy to cooperate with them.

 At Lover-beauty, they pride ourselves on not only having the largest and most desirable collection of products, but also the competitive prices and best customer service of any online lingerie wholesaler. Their goal is to make shopping online with them as easy, helpful and more enjoyable than a visit to your favorite store.


=='''Reference'''==